# Neural Systems and Behavior
### [Neural systems for behavioral activation and reward (1999)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0959438899800312)
#### Abstract
- The circuitry mediating the integration of reward perception and adaptive behavioral responses has been further refined. Recent developments indicate that the nucleus accumbens has a primary role in motivational circuitry, whereas afferents to the nucleus accumbens, in part, subserve distinct functions. Dopaminergic afferents serve to signal changes in rewarding stimuli, whereas glutamatergic input from the amygdala serves to cue behavior to conditioned reward, and afferents from the prefrontal cortex integrate information from short-term memory into behavioral responses.

### [Grounding neuroscience in behavioral changes using artificial neural networks (2024)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0959438823001411)
#### Abstract
- Connectiong neural activity to function is a common aim in neuroscience. How to define and conceptualize function, however, can vary. Here I focus on grounding this goal in the specific question of how a given change in behavior is produced by a change in neural circuits or activity. Artificial neural network models offer a particularly fruitful format for tackling such questions because they use neural mechanisms to perform complex transformations and produce appropriate behavior. Therefore, they can be a means of causually testing the extent to which neural change can be responsible for an experimentally observed behavioral change. Furthermore, because the field of interpretability in artificial intelligence has similar aims, neuroscientists can look to interpretability methods for new ways of indentifying neural features that drive performance and behaviors.

### [Electromagnetic radiation control for nonlinear dynamics of Hopfield neural networks (2024)](https://pubs.aip.org/aip/cha/article-abstract/34/7/073149/3304166/Electromagnetic-radiation-control-for-nonlinear?redirectedFrom=fulltext)
#### Abstract
- Electromagnetic radiation (EMR) affects the dynamical behavior of the nervous system, and appropriate EMR helps to study the dynamic mechanism of the nervous system. This paper uses a sophisticated four-dimensional Hopfield neural network (HNN) model augmented with one or more memristors to simulate the effects of EMR. We focus on the chaotic dynamics of HNN under the influence of EMR. Complex dynamical behaviors are found and transient chaotic phenomena have the same initial value sensitivity, showing how transient chaos is affected by EMR. Multiperiodic phenomena induced by quasi-periodic alterations are found in the dual EMR, as well as the suppression properties of the dual EMR for system chaos. This implies the dynamical behavior of the HNN system can be controlled by varying the amount of EMR or the number of affected neurons in the HNN. Finally, a strong validation of our proposed model is provided by Multisim and Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) hardware.
